The School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering (NTU EEE) began as one of the three founding schools of Nanyang Technological University, then known as Nanyang Technological Institute. The first intake of 194 students graduated successfully in 1985, marking the first batch of NTU EEE graduates.

Today, the School has become one of the world’s largest Engineering schools that nurture competent engineers. Each year, the School produces over a thousand graduates who are ready to take on great ambitions and challenges.

NTU EEE is now one of the top-ranked schools in the world, ranked 6th worldwide in the QS University Rankings by Subject 2020 (Electrical and Electronic Engineering). NTU EEE is also the first and only Asian School in the Top 20 (ranked 11th) for the ShanghaiRanking's Global Ranking of Academic Subjects 2020 - Electrical & Electronic Engineering.
NTU EEE receives over $90 million in annualised research funding and is backed by 150 faculty members from 21 countries whom have broad, diverse backgrounds with strong research and professional expertise. They are supported by about 300 researchers from all over the world. These researchers support the school’s extensive research output in Big Data Analytics, Internet of Things, Intelligent Transportation (V2X), Satellites, Photonics, Autonomous Systems, Power and Energy Engineering, Biomedical and Healthcare, Communications Engineering and Artificial Intelligence.

NTU EEE works closely and consistently with diverse industry partners – local and multinational companies, start-ups and established names – to ensure that we are staying ahead of tomorrow’s demands. Our partners include Rolls-Royce, Thales, Delta Electronics, NXP, Schaeffler Group, SMRT and ST Engineering. NTU EEE has impressively set up 4 (and counting) corporate laboratories for joint research & development, and these centres are pushing the frontiers of technological innovation.

Being Singapore's first school with an undergraduate satellite programme, NTU EEE has proudly launched a total of 9 locally-made satellites, including Singapore’s first satellite, the X-SAT, in 2011. NTU EEE’s Satellite Research Centre continues to drive forward space innovations since being the very first satellite research centre set up in a school in Singapore in 1999. In January 2017, the world witnessed the launch of our 7th satellite, the AOBA VELOX-III, also the first Singapore satellite launched from the International Space Station.

To support advanced research, the school hosts 13 research centres and facilities which are well-equipped with sophisticated and state-of-the-art equipment. Besides the 13 centres, there are more than 50 laboratories, supporting both the teaching and research activities in the School. The School is also supported by over five hundred research, technical and administrative staff members.

To date, NTU EEE consists of an average of close to 3000 undergraduate students in 9 areas of specialisation, around 1000 students in 9 graduate academic programmes, and over 20000 alumni strength. Apart from offering undergraduate and graduate courses, faculty members are also active in research and development, engaging in a broad range of collaborations with renowned overseas universities, research institutes and multinational companies.
